feat: initial test template docs and major reorganisation (#336)
pactflow/docs.pactflow.io: website/docs/docs/ai/managing.md

---
title: Managing PactFlow AI
sidebar_label: Managing PactFlow AI
---

## Usage Limits

> Access to the feature is metered based on the number of tests generated in a 30-day rolling window. Credits are allocated as follows:

Reviewer: This is still true as of writing this, by Prateek's PR will soon change this to be calendar-month based.

```suggestion
Access to the feature is metered based on the number of tests generated per calendar month and reset on the 1st of each month. Credits are allocated as follows:
```

2. Enterprise Plus or plans with Contract Testing Pro Addon: 30 credits per purchased user per month
3. All other plans (Individual, Team and Enterprise Plans): 10 credits per month

Note that credits are allocated to the organisation, not individual users.

### Examples

1. **Starter (Developer) Plan**

    If you have a free PactFlow plan, you are entitled to 10 tests per month no matter how many active users there are. 
    *NOTE: this is a legacy plan and is no longer available for signups*

2. **Team Plan**

    If you are on a Team 10 Plan (5 active users), you receive for 10 credits x 10 users for a total of 100 credits.

3. **Enterprise Plan**

    If you are on an Enterprise Plan with 50 users (42 active users), you receive for 30 credits x 50 users for a total of 1500 credits.

### Consumption

Each successfully generated test consumes a credit. If your organisation reaches its limit, you will see the following error:

```
ERROR: Client error: 403 Forbidden AI credits are exhausted.
```

:::note
The limits and your usage against these limits are not currently visible on the subscription page. This will be added in due course.

> :::

Reviewer: Not sure if this the spot, but you could mention that the current usage can be checked through the `pactflow-ai status` subcommand.

Author: Thanks. I think it would be a nice touch.

## Role Based Access Control (RBAC)

In addition to the [system preference](#managing-the-feature) that enables AI within your workspace, PactFlow's RBAC model allows you to manage access to specific AI capabilities for your users. For detailed information, refer to the [permissions documentation](/docs/permissions#ai).

By default, users assigned the [User](/docs/permissions/predefined-roles#user) role have access to all AI permissions ([`ai:*`](/docs/permissions#ai)), unless:

- Your account was created prior to the release of the AI feature (September 2024), or
- You have customized your role configuration.

**Granting Access:**

> To enable AI access for users, ensure that the assigned role includes either the [`ai:*`](/docs/permissions#ai) permission (granting access to all AI features) or the specific permissions required for the desired functionality. 

Reviewer: Once access granted, access can be checked from `pactflow-ai status` as well.

## Configuring PactFlow AI

### Managing the Feature

Access to PactFlow AI can be managed by a PactFlow Administrator (or user with the [`system_preference:manage:*`](/docs/permissions#system_preferencemanage) permission):

1. In the UI, navigate to "Settings" -> "Preferences" -> "System Preferences".
2. Check the "AI Test Generation" checkbox.
3. Save the settings.

### Configuring the CLI

The PactFlow AI CLI supports flexible configuration through environment variables and configuration files. It allows both **user-level** and **local** configuration, with local settings taking precedence.

### Configuration Methods

#### 1. Environment Variables
The CLI automatically picks up configuration from environment variables. For example, to configure authentication, set the following:

```sh
export PACT_BROKER_BASE_URL="https://YOUR_WORKSPACE.pactflow.io"
export PACT_BROKER_TOKEN="YOUR_TOKEN"
```

#### 2. Local Configuration File
To store configuration at the project level, use:

```sh
pactflow-ai config set broker.base-url https://YOUR_WORKSPACE.pactflow.io
pactflow-ai config set broker.auth.token YOUR_TOKEN
```

> This creates a `.pact.toml` file in the project directory. Add this file to `.gitignore` to avoid committing sensitive data.

Reviewer: I would maybe even recommend here that they:

- Commit `.pact.toml` with shared configuration options (since they most likely all share the same base URL, test templates, etc.)
- Set sensitive data (such as that token) through environment variables or the user config below (as that is linked to the user)

The CLI will automatically combine the options.

#### 3. User Configuration File
For global configuration shared across multiple projects, use:

```sh
pactflow-ai config set --user broker.base-url https://YOUR_WORKSPACE.pactflow.io
pactflow-ai config set --user broker.auth.token YOUR_TOKEN
```

> This stores the configuration in `~/.config/pact/config.toml` (Unix/macOS) or `%APPDATA%\pact\config.toml` (Windows).

Reviewer: Not sure if it's worth the nit, but if users have `XDG_CONFIG_HOME` configured, it will respect that (not sure about Windows 🤔)

Author: thx. It might be worth mentioning any environment variables we respect.

---
title: Managing PactFlow AI
sidebar_label: Managing PactFlow AI
---

## Usage Limits

> Access to the feature is limited by a credit system, where each test generated uses 1 credit. Usage is metered based on the number of tests generated per calendar month, and reset on the 1st day of each month.

Reviewer 2: Let's change "reset" to "resets" as it refers to the singular noun "usage", and also "1st" to "first".

> Credits are alotted to your account based on your plan:

Reviewer 2: allotted

1. PactFlow developer plans: 10 credits per month (total) 
2. Enterprise Plus or plans with Contract Testing Pro Addon: 30 credits per purchased user per month
3. All other plans (Individual, Team and Enterprise Plans): 10 credits per month

> Note that credits are allocated to the organisation, not individual users.

Reviewer 2: Let's keep the American spelling: "organization".

### Examples

1. **Starter (Developer) Plan**

    If you have a free PactFlow plan, you are entitled to 10 tests per month no matter how many active users there are. 

>     *NOTE: this is a legacy plan and is no longer available for signups*

Reviewer 2: Missing dot at the end of the sentence.

1. In the UI, navigate to "Settings" -> "Preferences" -> "System Preferences".
2. Check the "AI Test Generation" checkbox.
3. Save the settings.

### Configuring the CLI

The PactFlow AI CLI supports flexible configuration through environment variables and configuration files. It allows both **user-level** and **local** configuration, with local settings taking precedence.

### Configuration Methods

#### 1. Environment Variables
The CLI automatically picks up configuration from environment variables. For example, to configure authentication, set the following:

```sh
export PACT_BROKER_BASE_URL="https://YOUR_WORKSPACE.pactflow.io"
export PACT_BROKER_TOKEN="YOUR_TOKEN"
```

#### 2. Local Configuration File
To store configuration at the project level, use:

```sh
pactflow-ai config set broker.base-url https://YOUR_WORKSPACE.pactflow.io
pactflow-ai config set broker.auth.token YOUR_TOKEN
```

This creates a `.pact.toml` file in the project directory. Add this file to `.gitignore` to avoid committing sensitive data.

**Recommended setup**

> 1. Commit `.pact.toml` with shared configuration options for your team

Reviewer 2: Let's add a dot at the end.

> 1. Set sensitive user-level data (such as your API token) through environment variables or the user config (see below)

Reviewer 2: Let's add a dot at the end.
